I want to talk about the dichotomized weltanschauung of results and principals (and in a similar fashion I want to talk about long run and short run mentalities later). What the hell did I just say.

So before I dive into pretty obfuscations, I want to really define what I mean by "dichotomized weltanshauung" (for the astute Germanophile this may may already be self-evident, however I want to add some nuance). Weltanshauung literally means a way of viewing a world, but I almost mean it to be the way that you solve any problem that the world presents you. 

For an example let's use optimization problems. You have some function and you want to find the global maximum of the function. If the world were just functions and our raison d'etre was to maximize them, then our weltanshauung would be the way that we maximize them. Newton's Method or Nelder-Mead for example. Thus I propose that viewing the world through the lens of results and principals is one such way to solve all of life's questions. I then use dichotomized to mean that these two views are incompatible but all encompassing (their intersection is the empty set and their union is the entire sample space).

But before I proceed any further I want to offer an admonition. Not all problems neatly fit into a particular weltanshauung. For example, let's return to optimization. In python, if you are trying to find a function's maximum value using a library function, then you are mostly out of luck. However, if you transform your problem into another very similar one, minimizing the negative of your original function, then you've hit a gold mine. In physics, some physical systems problems can be more easily solved by first transforming the problem into a circuits problem. Crazy right. 

So the crux of the idea is this. We should each have lot's of weltanshauungs, lots of ways of looking at and solving the worlds problems. And sometimes particular weltanshauungs work very well for solving particular problems. Therefore the more you have in your toolbox the better, and the more experience you have transforming these problems, shifting your viewpoint, the better as well. 

Whew. 

Now onto results and principals. Oftentimes I look at democratic and republican (I hate to clarify, but US democratic and republican) debates, and I notice that they are arguing from two dichotically different weltanshauungs, those of principal and those of results. The argument I hear again and again is that over a "welfare state" (I sometimes find it odd how the connotations of these words have shifted over the years. Artificial was once the noble appellation of craftsmanship). The democrats will say: "These people need the money. It helps get people back on their feet and more productive. Increased social policies decrease crime." While the republican mantra is: "You work for what you earn. The system promotes social parasites. Some third slogan to balance this quote portmanteau out." But what they are really saying is that: the results seem to be good but the action seems to be bad. Good results, bad principal. 

A man that steals and gets away with it might feel his results are good, but the principal was bad. A mother that let's her child get adopted by a more well off family might feel her results are good, but the principal was bad. On the flip side. A father that refuses to get his son a new toy might feel the principal was good but when that child throws himself down on the floor of FAO Schwarz and starts screaming sees bad results. And a daughter might refuse an act of nepotism and feel that the principal was bad but the result good. 

While I have tried to draw distinction, I think in fact, there is a very fine line. And that in some situations, principal and result coalesce into one. But even though these are gray items, I think I can nail them down. 

The way that I look at principal and result based weltanschauungs is through the lens of an investor. As an investor, one of the first things that you learn is that a sure dollar is better than a 50-50 at two dollars. There are many names for this phenomena:  risk adjusted return, volatility premium, etc. There are even quasi-statistical measures of return based on this idea: the sharpe ratio, the sortino ratio, etc. But it all comes down to this: how much risk are you willing to take to garner more return. So let's tie this back into results and principals. 

In the end I believe that we all just care about the final results, an eschatological approach. But some of us play it safer than others. Take the daughter refusing the act of nepotism as an example. I would argue that she believes that in the long run that she will be more successful if she refuses the offer. However, she could just take the job now and be done with it. Kind of similar to the idea of: would you rather have a dollar now, or flip a coin and I will give you ten dollars if it is heads. There exist people that would take both options, for the job and for the cash. And I think in the end, the idea of principals vs. results is one of risk vs. reward. 

Thus you can have the same principals as somebody (these actions have a positive expected value), but make different decisions because of your risk tolerance. That being said, often times their fundamental principals differ as well. But perhaps this gives some light on the idea. Care to elaborate Looke? 




